<h1 align="center"> Project 1 </h1> <br>
Utilize Python scripting to analyze the provided dataset.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Build Process](#build-process)
- [Analysis](#analysis)
- [References](#references)


## Introduction

Our analysis aims to analyze whether there is a correlation between various borrower attributes and loan characteristics and whether the loans were eventually charged off or paid in full. Specifically we plan on performing the following with a dataset of 100,000 loans:

    - Understand the risk associated with credit card loans by investigating the relationship between loan status (charged off or paid off) and key variables such as credit score, annual income, debt-to-income ratio, and years of credit history.
    - Develop predictive models to forecast the likelihood of loan default based on borrower profiles and loan features.
    - Segment borrowers based on demographic characteristics, financial behavior, and loan purposes to identify patterns and trends associated with loan performance.
    - By identifying the most influential factors, we will determine the correlation of features contributing in the prediction of the loan default.
    - Analyze the trends in loan performance as well as the attributes of borrowers.
    - Use findings to mitigate risks.


## Getting Started

Prior to execution, you must have Python as well as VSCode installed. You must also have the necessary installation packages and the csv file downloaded.


## Build Process

PyBank analysis on records:
- The total number of months included in the dataset.
- The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period.
- The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes


## Analysis

- Try to break down your tasks into discrete mini-objectives.


## References

[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/fatmayousufmohamed/credit-card),
[Xpert Learning Assistant](https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/5057/external_tools/313)

Data for this dataset was generated by Kaggle, and is intended for educational purposes only.
